my name is dr. Ellen Watson I'm an
ophthalmologist in st. Joseph Missouri
and we're here today to talk about my
problems there's different parts to the
eye exam the vital sign of the eye of
course is the vision so the vision is
checked through a Snellen acuity which
gives you an idea how the patient sees
at 20 feet and that's usually done
through a reflectorized system within
your office
there's near vision is checked the
external features of the eye the eyelids
how the lid works across the surface of
the eye the position of the eyelid the
position of the eyes themselves are
checked the muscle balance alignment
between the two eyes how the extraocular
muscles move the ice through the
different fields of gaze they're checked
because there's different disorders that
can cause problems with how you move
your eyes such as a stroke or there's
congenital problems where the muscles
aren't properly innervated and that can
cause a problem moving the eye from side
to side or up and down then the eye
itself is checked through a bio
microscope called a suit lamp and that
puts a slit of light against the eye and
a tangential manner in the microscope a
bio microscope is used by alpha magis to
actually look at the different features
of the inside of the eye such as the
lens the cornea of the iris the colored
part of the eye and then the back of the
eye is checked by providing a condensing
lens such as a 78 dr. or Ruby lens is
used in front of the slit lamp to give a
very magnified view of the back of the
eye such as the optic nerve the optic
nerve is the only nerve in the human
body that can be inspected that nerve
head as it's called can be inspected and
see how healthy the nerve tissue is the
blood vessels then in the back of the
eye in the retina can be inspected this
has been dr. Alan Watson ophthalmologist
and st. Joseph Missouri
discussing different eye problems and
the treatment of different eye problems
with you